.TH "getGraphicsForWebPages.py" "1" "0.0.0" "Nicholas Lemay" "PxStats"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
getGraphicsForWebPages.py \- Gathers all the graphics required by the web pages.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
getGraphicsForWebPages.py


.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Gathers all the graphics required by the different web pages.

.SH "DEFAULT VALUES"
No default values exists since no options exist in the current version of this program.
.SH "OPTIONS"
No options exists for this program at the moment. 

.SH "FILES"
.BR 
.TP 
The following standard python modules are required :
.TP 
\fIos, sys, time, shutil, glob, commands \fP 
.TP 
The following stats library modules are required :  
.TP 
\fIStatsDateLib,StatsPats, StatsConfigParameters, MachineConfigParameters\fP
.BR 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.BR 
.TP 
\fBPXROOT\fP
Specifies the where metPx was installed.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
python getGraphicsForWebPages.py

****IMPORTANT NOTES :
.TP 
This is the only way to use this program at the moment. 
.TP 
This program is built in a way that it is expected to be run at least once per hour. Running it more often isn't really desirable but will not be harmfull. 
.TP 
Problems in the graphics shown in the web pages will appear if this program.
.TP 
This file is being called automatically by the launchGraphCreationprogram. Thus if launchGraphCreation is run properly, this program should barely, if ever, be used directly.




.SH "AUTHORS"
.BR 
Nicholas Lemay <nicholas.lemay@ec.gc.ca>




.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR 
.../px/stats/doc/
This folder contains infos for both users and developers.
