.TH "pickleSynchroniser.py" "1" "0.0.0" "Nicholas Lemay" "PxStats"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
pickleSynchroniser.py \- Small application usefull synchronising the pickles found on a machine with the pickles found on another machine.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
pickleSynchorniser.py 
.br 
pickleSynchorniser.py [\fIoption\fP]<\fIvalue\fP> [\fIoption\fP] <\fIvalue\fP> ...;

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Implementation of an rsync system. Allows a machine to 
synchronise the content of it's pickle folder with the
one located on a remote machine.


.SH "DEFAULT VALUES"
.TP 
\- Default clients is "All" clients. 
.TP 
\- Default interval value is 1 minute.
.TP 
\- Default login is pds. 
.TP 
\- Default machine is the local machine.(Thus no transfer would actually be made)
.TP 
\- Default output is None.
.TP 
\- Default verbose value is False.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BR 
.TP 
\fB\-c|\-\-clients\fR <\fI"client1,client2"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies the clients names for wich you want to synch the data.
.TP 
\fB\-l|\-\-login\fR <\fIlogin\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies a time of request different from the default 
    current time.( Usefull for past days and testing. ).
.TP 
\fB\-f|\-\-fileType\fR <\fIfileType\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies the user name you want to use to connect 
    to the remote machine using rsync(wich uses ssh accounts).
.LP 
\fB\-\-machines\fR <\fI"machine1"\fP,\fI"machine2"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies the machines to be used as source for the synch
.TP 
\fB\-o|\-outputs\fR <\fI"outputFileName"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies an output log file name to be used to store 
    errors that occured with rsync.

.TP 
\fB\-v|\-\-verbose\fR;
.LP 
    Specifies that you want to see the ryncs error printed on screen.
.SH "FILES"
.BR 
.TP 
The following standard python modules are required :
.TP 
\fIos, commands, optParse \fP 
.BR 
.TP 
The following px modules are required : 
.TP 
\fILogger\fP 
.BR 
.TP 
The following stats library modules are required :  
.TP 
\fIStatsPaths \fP
.BR 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.BR 
.TP 
\fBPXROOT\fP
Specifies the where metPx was installed.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
\-Example 1 
.IP 
Get help :

pickleSynchroniser.py \-h

.TP 
\-Example 2
.IP 
Update data from a specific machine :

pickleSynchroniser.py \-m "pds5" 

Note : This is the basic call. Login will be the default login.
        

.TP 
\-Example 3
.IP 
Update data from a specific client of a machine

pickleSynchroniser.py \-m "pds5" \-c "satnet"

Note : this will make updating very long if done client per client
       and is thus not recommended.

.TP 
Example 4
.IP 
Specify wich ssh login to use when connecting to the machines to
update :

pickleSynchroniser.py \-m "pds5"  \-l "myLogin"

Note : This will be the most often used call made to this 
       program. It is recommended that you use a login that 
       has instant access to the machine when using 
       pickleSynchroniser.py or else automatic updates 
       using crontab will be useless since user needs to
       type password for every ssh connection...
.SH "AUTHORS"
.BR 
Nicholas Lemay <nicholas.lemay@ec.gc.ca>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR 
.../px/stats/doc/
This folder contains infos for both users and developers.
