.TH "config" "1" "0.0.0" "Nicholas Lemay" "PxStats"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
config \- Main configuration file of the stats library. Contains all the info relative to the data collection, graphics production and file exchange of the stats library.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
config

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Main configuration file of the stats library. Contains all the info relative to the data collection, graphics production and file exchange of the stats library.

.SH "DEFAULT VALUES"
.TP 
There exists no default values for this configuration file.

.SH "FIELDS"
.TP 
Configuration file has the following sections :
.TP 
\- [generalConfig] : This field specifies the start of the general parameters section.
.IP 
\- sourceMachinesTags : Speficies the source machines from wich the log files come from.          
.IP 
\- picklingMachines : Specifies the machines where the stats will calculated from the log files and be pickled as to be usable by other programs.
.IP  
\- machinesToBackupInDb    : List of source machines for wich you want the pickled data to be preserved in round robin databases. 
.IP 
\- graphicsUploadMachines  : List of machine that are currently running columbo to wich you want to upload the graphics that columbo is interested in.

.TP 
\- [specialGroups] : Specifies the start of the special group parameters section. 
.IP              
\- Entries in this section are optional, but header should remain in the config file.
.IP 
\- Entries  in this section have a different format. All the fields for each entry must be found on the same line. 
.IP 
\- Each of these lines MUST have this from : groupName machineTag  tx|rx|trx   members  products
.BR 
.BR 
.TP 
***IMPORTANT NOTE : 
.TP 
All the machine names that are mentioned within this config file MUST have been set in the configForMachines file.   
.SH "FILES"
No required files exist.



.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
No environment variables are required. 

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
.br 
.TP 
[generalConfig]
.TP 
sourceMachinesTags      = pds\-op,pxatx
.TP 
picklingMachines        = logan1ForPdsop,logan1ForPxatx
.TP 
machinesToBackupInDb    = pds\-op,pxatx
.TP 
graphicsUploadMachines  = lvs1\-op,lvs2\-op
.TP 
[specialGroups]
.TP 
#groupName  machineTag tx/rx/trx   members              products
.TP  
AllWs      =  pds\-op   tx          *ws\-*                   *
.TP 
AllSatnets =  pxatx    tx          *satnet\-y*,*satnet\-w*   *
.TP 
AllWxo\-b   =  pds\-op   tx          *wxo\-b*                 *
.TP 
AllWxos    =  pxatx    tx          *wxos*                  *

 

.SH "AUTHORS"
.BR 
Nicholas Lemay <nicholas.lemay@ec.gc.ca>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP 
\fI"../px/stats/configForMachines"\fR The header contains instructions
.TP 
\fI"man statsConfigFormachines"\fR The header contains instructions
