.TH "transferPickleToRRD.py" "1" "0.0.0" "Nicholas Lemay" "PxStats"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
transferPickleToRRD.py \- Transfers the data found in pickle files into different rrd databases.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
transferPickleToRRD.py 
.br 
transferPickleToRRD.py [\fIoption\fP]<\fIvalue\fP> [\fIoption\fP] <\fIvalue\fP> ...;

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This program contains all the methods needed to 
transfer pickled data that was saved using 
pickleUpdater.py into an rrd database.In turn,
the rrd database can be used to plot graphics
using rrdTool.



.SH "DEFAULT VALUES"
.TP 
\- Default clients is "All" clients associated with the specified machine(s). 
.TP 
\- Default end time is the current time.
.TP 
\- Default fileType is none. If using default "All" clients option, fileType will automatically be set for all clients if none is specified.   
.TP 
\- Default groups is none.
.TP 
\- Default machines is pds5,pds6.
.TP 
\- Default products is all products.
.TP 
\- Default verbose value is False.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BR 
.TP 
\fB\-c|\-\-clients\fR <\fI"client1,client2"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies the clients names for wich you want to tramsfer the data.
.TP 
\fB\-e|\-\-endTime\fR <\fI"endtimeInIsoFormat"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies the ending time of the update.
.TP 
\fB\-f|\-\-fileTypes\fR <\fI"type1"\fP,\fI"type2,"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies the fileType for each of the clients.
.TP 
\fB\-g|\-\-group\fR<\fIgroupName\fP>
.LP 
    Transfer the combined data of all the specified clients/sources into a grouped database wich is labeled with the group's name.
.TP 
\fB\-\-machines\fR <\fI"machine1"\fP,\fI"machine2"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies the machines on wich the specified client/sources reside.
.TP 
\fB\-p|\-\-productss\fR <\fI"product1"\fP,\fI"product2"\fP>
.LP 
    Specifies wich product you are interested in.

.SH "FILES"
.BR 
.TP 
The following standard python modules are required :
.TP 
\fIos, time, getopt,  pickle, rrdtool, optparse \fP 
.BR 
.TP 
The following px modules are required : 
.TP 
\fIPXManager, Logger\fP 
.BR 
.TP 
The following stats library modules are required :  
.TP 
\fIStatsDateLib, pickleMerging, generalStatsLibraryMethods, rrdUtilities\fP
.BR 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.BR 
.TP 
\fBPXROOT\fP
Specifies the where metPx was installed.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
\-Example 1
.IP 
python transferPickleToRRD.py \-m machine

This tranfers all the currently active tx and rx clients/sources pickle
files that are found between the time of he last transfer up to the top
of the current hour. This is the simplest and most used option of
transferPickleToRRD.py

.TP 
\-Example 2
.IP 

python transferPickleToRRD.py \-m machine \-e "2006\-12\-10 01:00:00"


Same as above but for files between time of last update and 2006\-12\-10
01:00:00.This is usefull for testing purposes, if more recent pickels
aren't available at the moment or if user wants to update database for
shorter periods as to not have to transfer data for hours on end.

.TP 
\-Example 3
.IP 

python transferPickleToRRD.py \-m machine \-c client \-f tx

Same as #1 except that we only transfer the pickles for a single
tx client.

.TP 
\-Example 4
.IP 

python transferPickleToRRD.py \-\-fileTypes 'tx' \-c '*satnet*' \-m 'pxatx' \-g 'satnet' \-p 'MPCN'

This is a common example of transferring pickle files from numerous sources and 
combining the data into an entity wich sports the group's name. Here we will 
take all the data coming from the pxatx machine, find the ones that relate to tx clients 
wich have satnet in their names, browse their pickle files, take out only the lines wich 
refer to MPCN products and the, merge all of the found data into rrd databases wich are named 
after the specified group name. 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.BR 
Nicholas Lemay <nicholas.lemay@ec.gc.ca>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR 
.../px/stats/doc/
This folder contains infos for both users and developers.
